README.md, before:

# Natural Rhythm App

Natural Rhythm is an app that makes you feel a natural rhythm using haptics via your iPhone or Apple Watch.

It works by generating a fractal time series using the Fourier filtering method and then using haptics to simulate the fractal signal.

## Features

- Tap to Feel the Fractal
- Stop and Start the rhythm

## Installation

- Clone the repository
- Open the project in Xcode
- Run the project

## Why Fractal = Natural

Fractals are mathematical patterns that are self-similar at different scales. They are found in nature, such as in the branching of trees, the shape of coastlines, and the structure of galaxies. Fractals are also found in the human body, such as in the branching of blood vessels and the structure of the lungs.

Fractals can also be found in the human heartbeat, where the time between heartbeats (also known as HRV or heart rate variability) is not constant but follows a fractal pattern. This is because the human body is a complex system that is always adapting to its environment. The heartbeat is closely related to sympathetic (flight or fight) and parasympathetic (rest and digest) nervous system. The more fractal is the variability, the more sensitive it is to the both systems.

When you use this app, you "feel" the fractal variability that is similar to the one found in the human heartbeat. It is fractal, because the variations you find in short time intervals are similar to the variations you find in long time intervals. However, the longer you listen, the higher is the chance to encounter a bigger variation. The shorter you listen, the smaller are the variations in rhythm. This indicates the presence of correlations across different time scales, which means that there's an general underlying principle that governs the system. That's why it's so prevalent in nature, which is a complex system where multiple scales have to co-exist and interact in order for life to exist.

Feeling the fractal rhythm can help you attune to this basic biological rhythm, which can help you feel more connected to your body and to the environment.

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

add more links to readme

README.md, after:

# Natural Rhythm App

Natural Rhythm is an app that makes you feel a natural rhythm using haptics via your iPhone or Apple Watch.

It works by generating a fractal time series using the Fourier filtering method and then using haptics to simulate the fractal signal.

This app was developed by [Dmitry Paranyushkin](https://paranyushkin.com/), the founder of [Nodus Labs](https://noduslabs.com).

## Features

- Tap to Feel the Fractal
- Stop and Start the rhythm

## Installation

- Clone the repository
- Open the project in Xcode
- Run the project

## Why Fractal = Natural

Fractals are mathematical patterns that are self-similar at different scales. They are found in nature, such as in the branching of trees, the shape of coastlines, and the structure of galaxies. Fractals are also found in the human body, such as in the branching of blood vessels and the structure of the lungs.

Fractals can also be found in the human heartbeat, where the time between heartbeats (also known as HRV or heart rate variability) is not constant but follows a fractal pattern. This is because the human body is a complex system that is always adapting to its environment. The heartbeat is closely related to sympathetic (flight or fight) and parasympathetic (rest and digest) nervous system. The more fractal is the variability, the more sensitive it is to the both systems.

When you use this app, you "feel" the fractal variability that is similar to the one found in the human heartbeat. It is fractal, because the variations you find in short time intervals are similar to the variations you find in long time intervals. However, the longer you listen, the higher is the chance to encounter a bigger variation. The shorter you listen, the smaller are the variations in rhythm. This indicates the presence of correlations across different time scales, which means that there's an general underlying principle that governs the system. That's why it's so prevalent in nature, which is a complex system where multiple scales have to co-exist and interact in order for life to exist.

Feeling the fractal rhythm can help you attune to this basic biological rhythm, which can help you feel more connected to your body and to the environment.

## References

To learn more, please, refer to

- [our article on HRV and fractal variability](https://noduslabs.com/research/how-to-measure-heart-rate-variability-hrv-using-fractals/)
- [ecological thinking framework](https://noduslabs.com/research/ecological-thinking-framework/)
- [why variability is good for health](https://8os.io/why-variability-is-good-for-health/)
- [ecology and panarchy of physical movement](https://8os.io/fractal-variability-panarchy-movement/)

## Related Tools

These are some other tools that can help you explore the fractals developed by Dmitry Paranyushkin / Nodus Labs:

- [Fractal Beat MIDI Synth](https://fractalbeat.live) for making fractal beats and music
- [Adaptive Movement Tracker](https://noduslabs.com/fractal-move/) for moving like fractal
- [Detrended Fluctuation Analysis npm module](https://github.com/deemeetree/dfa) - an NPM module to analyze fractal patterns in data
- [Fractal Signal Generator npm module](https://github.com/noduslabs/generate-fractal-signal) - an NPM module to generate fractal signals
- [Fractal Feedback](https://fractality.app/) - a tool for analyzing and generating fractal signals (includes a movement tracker module and an HRV analysis app that works with Polar H10)
- [InfraNodus](https://infranodus.com) - a tool for fractal thinking with networks

## License

MIT License
